Jurnal Analisis Bisnis Ekonomi  
Vol. 20 No. 2 (2022) pp. 93-107 
pISSN: 1693-5950  |  eISSN: 2579-647x 
Journal Homepage: http://journal.unimma.ac.id/index.php/bisnisekonomi  
 
93 
Knowing the Effect of E-commerce and Fintech 
Transactions on Meeting the Needs of the Millennial 
Society 
 
Ayunda Putri Nilasari 
, Retnosari, Endang Kartini Panggiarti, Erni Puji Astutik 
D3 Accounting Study Program, Faculty of Economics, Tidar University, Indonesia 
 ayundaputri@untidar.ac.id  
 https://doi.org/10.31603/bisnisekonomi.v20i2.5963  
 
Submitted: 03/10/2021 
Revised: 14/04/2022 
Accepted: 16/06/2022 
 
 
Abstract 
Keywords: 
E-commerce; 
Fintech; Covid-19 
Pandemic; 
Millennials 
Activity restrictions to suppress the spread of the Covid-19 virus have made people take 
advantage of existing technology as well as the emergence of e-commerce and the ease 
of transactions creating business opportunities that greatly assist people in meeting their 
needs without having to leave the house and interact with many people. Researchers 
want to know the influence of the development of fintech, e-commerce, delivery services, 
lifestyle and banking security on meeting the online needs of the millennial community 
among students. The research method used is quantitative research with a sample of 
millennial society from Tidar University and Stekom University students. Various e-
commerce applications, social media, fintech and online transportation are the most 
widely used by respondents 94.2% shoppe, 49.7% whatsapp and grab. Technological 
sophistication affects lifestyle in meeting needs during the pandemic because more than 
75% answered agree and 45% strongly agreed. The lifestyle of today's society by utilizing 
technology becomes faster, more effective and efficient because more than 75% 
answered agree and 50% answered strongly agree. Respondents from Tidar University 
and Stekom University operate e-commerce applications that are available by taking 
advantage of the ease of transactions, 90% agree. The results of student responses to 
promos or free shipping coupons made them interested in making online purchases, 80% 
answered strongly agree. The results of the survey of student respondents regarding the 
security and ease of payment from banking services to conduct transactions either 
through e-banking or top up answered 75% agreed.   
 
Abstrak 
Kata kunci:  
E-commerce; 
Fintech; Pandemi 
Covid-19; 
Masyarakat 
milenial 
Pembatasan aktivitas untuk menekan penyebaran virus Covid-19 membuat masyarakat 
memanfaatkan teknologi yang ada serta munculnya e-commerce dan kemudahan bertransaksi 
menciptakan peluang bisnis yang sangat membantu masyarakat dalam memenuhi kebutuhannya 
tanpa harus keluar rumah dan berinteraksi dengan banyak orang. Peneliti ingin mengetahui 
pengaruh perkembangan fintech, e-commerce, layanan pengiriman, gaya hidup dan keamanan 
perbankan terhadap pemenuhan kebutuhan online komunitas milenial di kalangan mahasiswa. 
Metode penelit