 
Lencana: Jurnal Inovasi Ilmu Pendidikan 
Vol.1, No.3 Juli 2023 
 e-ISSN: 2964-9684; p-ISSN: 2964-9463, Hal 278-291 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.55606/lencana.v1i3.1836  
Received April 30, 2023; Revised Mei 12, 2023; Accepted Juni 08, 2023 
*Nika Nencyana Fadila, nencyananika@gmail.com  
 
 
 
 
 
Fenomena Thrifting Yang Populer Dikalangan Mahasiswa 
 
Nika Nencyana Fadila  
Institut Agama Islam Negeri Ponorogo 
 
Raudhotul Alifah 
Institut Agama Islam Negeri Ponorogo 
 
Andhita Risko Faristiana 
Institut Agama Islam Negeri Ponorogo 
 
Alamat : Jl. Puspita Jaya, Pintu, Jenangan, Ponorogo, Jawa Timur 
Korespondensi penulis: nencyananika@gmail.com 
 
Abstract. In this day and age, the phenomenon of thrifting is not new but is gaining 
popularity among young people, especially college students. At present, fashion is a 
necessity whose development is very fast with the emergence of various new fashion 
trends among teenagers in a short period of time. One of them is fashion thrift. Thrifting 
itself is a used-goods shopping activity that aims to save costs. The reason why thrifting 
is currently very popular and popular with teenagers, especially students, is that by 
spending a minimum of money, you can get items of various models, and you can even 
find items that are classified as rare. This causes a feeling of self-satisfaction. Another 
reason for the fashion thrift phenomenon that is happening in Indonesia is the lifestyle of 
people who want to look fashionable with a minimal and appropriate budget due to a 
sense of prestige. This phenomenon is quite interesting and is a strong reason for 
researchers to research the thrifting phenomenon to explore further the perspectives of 
students regarding the thrifting phenomenon, what factors have caused this phenomenon 
to become popular again, what are the interesting things for students about the thrifting 
phenomenon, and product quality as well as the impact of usage on consumers. 
Researchers used a qualitative approach with literature study and analysis techniques. 
 
Keywords: Phenomenon of Thrifting, College Student, Fashion 
 
Abstrak. Pada zaman sekarang ini ini fenomena thrifting bukanlah hal baru akan tetapi 
kembali populer dikalangan anak muda khususnya mahasiswa. Saat ini fashion menjadi 
kebutuhan yang perrkembangannya sangat cepat dengan munculnya beragam tren fashion 
baru dikalangan para remaja dalam kurun waktu yang singkat. Salah satunya yakni 
fashion thrift. Thrifting sendiri merupakan aktivitas belanja barang bekas yang bertujuan 
menghemat biaya. Alasan kenapa saat ini thrift menjadi sangat populer dan digemari 
remaja khususnya golongan mahasiswa adalah dengan mengeluarakan minim biaya bisa 
mendapatkan barang dengan baragam modelnya bahkan dapat ditemukan barang-barang 
yang tergolong langka. Hal ini menyebabkan munculnya sensasi kepuasan terhadap diri 
sendiri. Adapun alasan lain terjadinya fenomena fashion thrift yang terjadi di Indonesia 
yakni gaya hidup masyarakat yang 